Update using Flutter from China (#9338)
flutter/website: src/community/china/index.md

To set your machine to use a mirror site:

{% comment %} Nav tabs {% endcomment -%}
<ul class="nav nav-tabs" id="china-os-tabs" role="tablist">
{% for os in page.os-list %}
{% assign id = os | downcase -%}
  <li class="nav-item">
    <a class="nav-link {%- if id == 'windows' %} active {% endif %}" id="{{id}}-tab" href="#{{id}}" role="tab" aria-controls="{{id}}" aria-selected="true">{{os}}</a>
  </li>
{% endfor -%}
</ul>

{% comment %} Tab panes {% endcomment -%}
<div class="tab-content">
{% include_relative _os-settings.md os="Windows" %}
{% include_relative _os-settings.md os="macOS" %}
{% include_relative _os-settings.md os="Linux" %}
{% include_relative _os-settings.md os="ChromeOS" %}
</div>

### Download other versions of Flutter

To install a different version of Flutter found in the
[archive]({{site.url}}/release/archive),
replace `storage.googleapis.com` with that of your trusted mirror.
This should improve download speed.

For example:

* Original URL:<br>
  [`https://storage.googleapis.com/{{path}}`](https://storage.googleapis.com/{{path}})

* Mirrored URL:<br>
  [`https://storage.flutter-io.cn/{{path}}`](https://storage.flutter-io.cn/{{path}})

> ## Configure your machine to publish your package

Author: Not quite. I just made some edits that I will stage and upload shortly.

To publish your packages to pub.dev,
you need to access the pub.dev site.

This procedure works even if you have set permanent values for your machine.

1. Open a new terminal window.

> 1. Set your machine to use the default environment variables.

Author: Agreed. Fixed.

  {% comment %}
  From https://github.com/flutter/website/pull/9338#discussion_r1328077020
  {% endcomment %}

To access pub.dev, you can use one of three options:

1. Configure a proxy.
   To configure a proxy, check out the [Dart documentation on proxies][].

  {% comment %}
  From https://github.com/flutter/website/issues/2556#issuecomment-481566476
  {% endcomment %}

> 1. Enable your VPN without adding a `credentials.json` file.
> 
> 1. Disable your proxy and add a `credentials.json` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Make sure the `PUB_HOSTED_URL` environment variable is unset or is empty.

1. Enable your proxy and get authorized through Google OAuth with pub.dev by publishing the package.
```

The [China Flutter User Group][] (CFUG) maintains a Simplified Chinese
Flutter website [https://flutter.cn](https://flutter.cn) and a mirror.
Other mirrors can be found at the [end of this guide](#known-trusted-community-run-mirror-sites).

### Configure your machine to use a mirror site

To install or use Flutter in China, use a trustworthy Flutter mirror site.
This requires setting two environment variables on your machine.

_All examples that follow presume that you are using the CFUG mirror._

To set your machine to use a mirror site:

{% comment %} Nav tabs {% endcomment -%}
<ul class="nav nav-tabs" id="china-os-tabs" role="tablist">
{% for os in page.os-list %}
{% assign id = os | downcase -%}
  <li class="nav-item">
    <a class="nav-link {%- if id == 'windows' %} active {% endif %}" id="{{id}}-tab" href="#{{id}}" role="tab" aria-controls="{{id}} {{id}}-dl {{id}}-pub" aria-selected="true">{{os}}</a>
  </li>
{% endfor -%}
</ul>

{% comment %} Tab panes {% endcomment -%}
<div class="tab-content">
{% for os in page.os-list %}
{% include_relative _os-settings.md ref-os=os sdk=flutter-sdk %}
{% endfor -%}
</div>

### Download Flutter archives based on a mirrored URL

> To download Flutter archives from a mirrored URL,

Reviewer 2: I think this section is missing the context of where to get the original `storage.googleapis.com` links, which is necessary for the steps to work. Perhaps:

```suggestion
To download Flutter from the [SDK archive][] using a mirrored URL,
```

(and add the link definition).

replace `storage.googleapis.com` with the URL of your trusted mirror.
This should improve download speed.

> You can use the mirror URL in other applications to download software.

Reviewer 2: What kind of software is this referring to?

To change a Google storage site to a CFUG storage site, replace the example

> original URL with the example mirror URL.

Reviewer 2: I'm a bit lost on what this sentence is trying to do. Is it trying to act as an instruction? Or is trying to introduce the following example? I think it would help be more explicit if it's about the following example.

```
The following example shows how to update an example Flutter download URL
from using Google's archive to using CFUG's mirror.
```

{% comment %} Nav tabs {% endcomment -%}
<ul class="nav nav-tabs" id="china-os-dl-tabs" role="tablist">
{% for os in page.os-list %}
{% assign id = os | downcase -%}
  <li class="nav-item">
    <a class="nav-link {%- if id == 'windows' %} active {% endif %}" id="{{id}}-dl-tab" href="#{{id}}-dl" role="tab" aria-controls="{{id}} {{id}}-dl {{id}}-pub" aria-selected="true">{{os}}</a>
  </li>
{% endfor -%}
</ul>

{% comment %} Tab panes {% endcomment -%}
<div class="tab-content">
{% for os in page.os-list %}

> {% include_relative _download-urls.md ref-os=os filepath=sdk-path %}

Reviewer 2: This seems to be showing `.tar.xz` for the Windows tab and `.zip` for the Linux one.

{% endfor -%}
</div>

{{site.alert.note}}
  Not every mirror supports downloading artifacts using their direct URL.
{{site.alert.end}}

> ## Configure your machine to publish your package

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Configure your machine to publish a package
```

Flutter website [https://flutter.cn](https://flutter.cn) and a mirror.
Other mirrors can be found at the [end of this guide](#known-trusted-community-run-mirror-sites).

### Configure your machine to use a mirror site

To install or use Flutter in China, use a trustworthy Flutter mirror site.
This requires setting two environment variables on your machine.

_All examples that follow presume that you are using the CFUG mirror._

To set your machine to use a mirror site:

{% comment %} Nav tabs {% endcomment -%}
<ul class="nav nav-tabs" id="china-os-tabs" role="tablist">
{% for os in page.os-list %}
{% assign id = os | downcase -%}
  <li class="nav-item">
    <a class="nav-link {%- if id == 'windows' %} active {% endif %}" id="{{id}}-tab" href="#{{id}}" role="tab" aria-controls="{{id}}" aria-selected="true">{{os}}</a>
  </li>
{% endfor -%}
</ul>

{% comment %} Tab panes {% endcomment -%}
<div class="tab-content">
{% include_relative _os-settings.md os="Windows" %}
{% include_relative _os-settings.md os="macOS" %}
{% include_relative _os-settings.md os="Linux" %}
{% include_relative _os-settings.md os="ChromeOS" %}
</div>

> ### Download other versions of Flutter
> 
> To install a different version of Flutter found in the
> [archive]({{site.url}}/release/archive),
> replace `storage.googleapis.com` with that of your trusted mirror.
> This should improve download speed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Download Flutter archives based on a mirrored URL

To download Flutter archives from a mirrored URL directly,
replace `storage.googleapis.com` with that of your trusted mirror.
This should improve download speed and the replaced URL
can be used in other downloading software.

{{site.alert.note}}
  Not every mirror supports downloading artifacts from a replaced URL.
{{site.alert.end}}
```

For example:

* Original URL:<br>
  [`https://storage.googleapis.com/{{path}}`](https://storage.googleapis.com/{{path}})

* Mirrored URL:<br>
  [`https://storage.flutter-io.cn/{{path}}`](https://storage.flutter-io.cn/{{path}})

## Configure your machine to publish your package

> To publish your packages to pub.dev,
> you need to access the pub.dev site.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To publish your packages to pub.dev,
you need to be accessible to Google OAuth and the pub.dev site.
```

  {% comment %}
  From https://github.com/flutter/website/pull/9338#discussion_r1328077020
  {% endcomment %}

> To access pub.dev, you can use one of three options:

Reviewer: Sorry, didn't notice it's `three`

(1/2)

```suggestion
To publish packages to pub.dev:
```

1. Configure a proxy.
   To configure a proxy, check out the [Dart documentation on proxies][].

  {% comment %}
  From https://github.com/flutter/website/issues/2556#issuecomment-481566476
  {% endcomment %}

1. Verify that your `PUB_HOSTED_URL` environment variable is either unset
   or empty.

   On macOS, Linux, or ChromeOS, run this command:

   ```bash
   echo $PUB_HOSTED_URL
   ```

   If this command returns any value, unset it.

   ```bash
   unset $PUB_HOSTED_URL
   ```

   On Windows, run this command:

   ```powershell
   echo $env:PUB_HOSTED_URL
   ```

   If this command returns any value, unset it.

   ```powershell
   Remove-Item $env:PUB_HOSTED_URL
   ```

> 
> 1. Enable your proxy then publish your package and get authorized
>    through Google OAuth with pub.dev.

Reviewer: (2/2)

```suggestion
```

> To learn more about publishing packages, check out
> [Dart documentation on publishing packages][]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more about publishing packages, check out
[Dart documentation on publishing packages][].
```

[Dart documentation on proxies]: {{site.dart-site}}/tools/pub/troubleshoot#pub-get-fails-from-behind-a-corporate-firewall

[Dart documentation on publishing packages]: {{site.dart-site}}/tools/pub/publishing

## Details on mirror sites

### Support for mirror sites

The Flutter team cannot guarantee long-term availability of any mirrors.
You can use other mirrors if they become available.

> ### New mirror sites

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Host new mirror sites
```

### Configure your machine to use a mirror site

To install or use Flutter in China, use a trustworthy Flutter mirror site.
This requires setting two environment variables on your machine.

_All examples that follow presume that you are using the CFUG mirror._

To set your machine to use a mirror site:

{% comment %} Nav tabs {% endcomment -%}
<ul class="nav nav-tabs" id="china-os-tabs" role="tablist">
{% for os in page.os-list %}
{% assign id = os | downcase -%}
  <li class="nav-item">
    <a class="nav-link {%- if id == 'windows' %} active {% endif %}" id="{{id}}-tab" href="#{{id}}" role="tab" aria-controls="{{id}}" aria-selected="true">{{os}}</a>
  </li>
{% endfor -%}
</ul>

{% comment %} Tab panes {% endcomment -%}
<div class="tab-content">
{% include_relative _os-settings.md os="Windows" %}
{% include_relative _os-settings.md os="macOS" %}
{% include_relative _os-settings.md os="Linux" %}
{% include_relative _os-settings.md os="ChromeOS" %}
</div>

### Download Flutter archives based on a mirrored URL

To download Flutter archives from a mirrored URL,
replace `storage.googleapis.com` with the URL of your trusted mirror.
This should improve download speed and the replaced URL

> can be used to download other software.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
can be used to download in other software.
```

Author: "download in" wouldn't work here because there's no target given. Leaving as is.

Reviewer: Ah what I mean is use other softwares with the URL to download artifacts

> This should improve download speed and the replaced URL
> can be used to download other software.

Author: ```suggestion
This should improve download speed.
 You can use the replaced URL in other applications to download software.
```

---
title: Using Flutter in China

> description: Where to find a version of the Flutter site that is localized to Simplified Chinese.

Author: Updated.

toc: true
os-list: [Windows, macOS, Linux, ChromeOS]
---

{% assign path = 'flutter_infra_release/releases/stable/windows/flutter_windows_3.3.0-stable.zip' -%}

To speed the download and installation of Flutter in China,
consider using a mirror site.

{{site.alert.important}}
  Use mirror sites only if you _trust_ the provider.
  The Flutter team cannot verify their reliability or security.
{{site.alert.end}}

## Use a Flutter mirror site

The [China Flutter User Group][] (CFUG) maintains a Simplified Chinese
Flutter website [https://flutter.cn](https://flutter.cn) and a mirror.

> Other mirrors can be found at the [end of this guide](#known-trusted-community-run-mirror-sites).

Reviewer 2: I think it's good to stick to the full "mirror sites" wording to be consistent and avoid any potential confusion.

```suggestion
Other mirror sites can be found at the [end of this guide](#known-trusted-community-run-mirror-sites).
```

Author: Added a link to "mirror site" and referenced the two together.

  {% comment %}
  From https://github.com/flutter/website/pull/9338#discussion_r1328077020
  {% endcomment %}

To publish packages to pub.dev:

1. Configure a proxy.
   To configure a proxy, check out the [Dart documentation on proxies][].

  {% comment %}
  From https://github.com/flutter/website/issues/2556#issuecomment-481566476
  {% endcomment %}

1. Verify that your `PUB_HOSTED_URL` environment variable is either unset
   or empty.

   On macOS, Linux, or ChromeOS, run this command:

   ```bash
   echo $PUB_HOSTED_URL
   ```

   If this command returns any value, unset it.

   ```bash
   unset $PUB_HOSTED_URL
   ```

   On Windows, run this command:

   ```powershell
   echo $env:PUB_HOSTED_URL
   ```

   If this command returns any value, unset it.

   ```powershell
   Remove-Item $env:PUB_HOSTED_URL
   ```

To learn more about publishing packages, check out
[Dart documentation on publishing packages][].

[Dart documentation on proxies]: {{site.dart-site}}/tools/pub/troubleshoot#pub-get-fails-from-behind-a-corporate-firewall

[Dart documentation on publishing packages]: {{site.dart-site}}/tools/pub/publishing

## Details on mirror sites

### Support for mirror sites

> The Flutter team cannot guarantee long-term availability of any mirrors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Flutter team can't guarantee long-term availability of any mirrors.
```

> The Flutter team cannot guarantee long-term availability of any mirrors.
> You can use other mirrors if they become available.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Flutter team can't guarantee long-term availability of any mirror sites.
You can use other mirror sites if they become available.
```

Author: Updated.
